Project Proposal - Energy consumption or emissions per country

Question/need:

    What is the framing question of your analysis, or the purpose of the model/system you plan to build?

    Can a country's energy consumption or greenhouse gas emissions be determined by its makeup: size, GDP,
    poverty level, renewables production, population, etc? The purpose is to look for a meaningful relationship.

    Who benefits from exploring this question or building this model/system?

    It's a complicated social-economic-environmental issue that is interesting to explore. I'm not sure
    exactly who benefits from it.

Data Description:

    What dataset(s) do you plan to use, and how will you obtain the data?

    I will use the CIA World Factbook https://www.cia.gov/the-world-factbook/countries/ for stats on
    different countries from years 2000-2018. The active website only shows 2021 data, and previous years are
    obtained by downloading a zip of that year's website: https://www.cia.gov/the-world-factbook/about/archives.
    So the websites I will scrape will be local to my machine. I am only going back to 2000 because that's the
    earliest archive that is available.

    I will use the US EIA website, https://stats.oecd.org/viewhtml.aspx?datasetcode=EXP_MORSC&lang=en, to download
    csv tables on countries' energy production and consumption from years 2000-2018. There are also other data
    available like "Mortality, morbidity and welfare cost from exposure to environment-related risks" which could
    be valuable and is also available via a web-scraped table or csv download.

Customise

    What is an individual sample/unit of analysis in this project? What characteristics/features do you expect
    to work with? If modeling, what will you predict as your target?

    Features include country, year, GHG emissions, CO2 emissions, size in square feet, population, poverty level,
    renewables production, GDP, and more. 

Tools:

    How do you intend to meet the tools requirement of the project?

    Selenium to drive through each country's year's factbook and Selenium for data acquisition. Maybe SQL for the
    csv tables. 

    Are you planning in advance to need or use additional tools beyond those required?

    No.

MVP Goal:

    What would a minimum viable product (MVP) look like for this project?

    An MVP could be one country over all the years or all the data read in and cleaned up in a database.
